>> Jon Kuperman: Network optimization.
So I'm back over here.
Click on Network Performance.
We've got some cool things here just
some cool things about bounce rate,
probability and things like that.
But what we'll do for now is we will
just kind of open the Network panel and
we'll refresh this page here.
And since this page has some images and
some JavaScript on it.
It's a lot more interesting than
the page that we were looking at before.
We can kinda see that there's quite
a lot of resources coming through and
they're taking quite a while.
We've got these low priority things
taking a while to get through,
I'll give it a second.
And then I think I'll actually
just pop this dev tool out, so
we can get a nice full page of it here.
So, yeah.
So
we can basically see that we've
got these kinda of screenshots of
the app loading which we showed before.
I'm gonna minimize that for now.
We've got a list of all of the things,
I think Mark had pointed out this really
great workflow earlier
of sorting by size and
seeing what the biggest
thing that came down was.
So you can see that the largest things
that came were our images followed by this
JavaScript file.
Followed by another image, and
then we kinda get into our CSS and HTML.
We've got at the bottom, again,
still we've got how many requests we had,
how long it took to load.
And then we can see some things that are
quite unacceptable, like the DOM content
itself took seven seconds to load, the
whole page took like 23 seconds to load.
We can use this again when we get into
the lighthouse audit, because it'll give
us some really actionable items for
making this load a lot faster.
But the network is a great place to start
off to identify that there are problems
in general.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: What would account for
the differences in load times here?
Mine says 3.21 second.
>> Jon Kuperman: I think the big thing is
that I still have this 3G throttle enabled
by accident,
is probably the biggest thing.
So let's go ahead and
refresh the page here.
Yeah, so now I've got two 2.11 seconds.
Yeah, it's great question.
I didn't mean to leave that on, but
I thought it nicely illustrated that
sometimes loads can be quite long.
Yeah, cool, so
we've got all this different stuff.
[LAUGH] That's a really good segue.
These are really great tools,
disable cache and throttling.
But do make sure that you recheck
them as you're going about your day.
I actually had quite an embarrassing
probably five years ago.
I filed a big SEV1 ticket against
one of our production apps for
taking an unbelievable
amount of time to load and
then realized I had fair 4G or
something like that enabled.
And I was doing all these profiles and
I was like,
how is it that this tiny JavaScript
bundle is taking this long?
Man, that was embarrassing.
So, another case for using incognito
windows cuz they'll reset all
your defaults, but do make sure
that these are so excellent to use.
You can also do these cool network
conditions that are kind of interesting.
So you can refuse some of the encodings,
some of the compression algorithms.
You can override the browser cache,
you can get really nitty-gritty with that.
But I think just knowing that these
network conditions are here is good enough
for today.
The one thing I wanted to point
out here is, so if we go ahead and
we do a refresh here and
we look at some of the times.
So I'm gonna click on,
>> Jon Kuperman: One
of these scripts here.
And so basically what I wanna do is look
at what took the longest amount of time.
This picture took 11 seconds,
then I go ahead and click on it.
We get this really cool, so
similar to what we've looked at before.
You can see the headers.
You can see their image response and
its preview and things like that.
But I wanted to check
out this timing thing,
cuz I feel like it's one of these very
underrated features of the dev tools.
And what this is it shows you,
at what point in the load was
this image queued for download?
When did it actually start downloading?
And then it shows you this really nice
color coordinated breakdown of very
deeply inside the HTTP traffic, the TCP,
where did things take a long time.
So this harkens back to that kinda
superpowers I was talking about
the beginning, where you can see how long
did the content actually take to download?
How long were we waiting
on the server response?
And so you can do these really
cool things if, for example,
I go back to google.com, and
I do a network thing here,
you can really get some amazing insights
into what actually took so long?
So we can see this thing took 3 seconds.
And we can see that it was really waiting
for server response for quite a long time.
You can get some really nice details into,
for example,
the request started and
it was told it was a secure request.
So it does this HTTPS handshake,
and that goes back and forth, and
then the request finally comes in.
How long did it take before
when that came in and
when the first byte started responding?
Maybe your server's slow, or
it took a long time to download.
Maybe the internet connection
slow on your user.
So you can really see three seconds to
load isn't the same as three seconds to
load in different cases.
It could be you two and
a half seconds waiting for
the server to respond because
you need to scale your servers.
Or it could be three seconds all and
downloading and
the server responded immediately.
It just took a while for
the thing to download.
So you can get some
really cool information.
I recommend if you ever strike anything
puzzling in the network performance you
click on the asset itself and
you come in here.
And you just take a little bit of a look,
cuz sometimes you'll see
really surprising things.
This deep links through to
this really nice explanation.
And so here, these are on
the official Chrome DevTools docs.
You can see all the different possible
states and what they mean, basically.
So you can see there's like DNS lookup or
something gets stalled because there's so
many different reasons, it's priority or
there's too many connections open.
Like I mentioned before, there's a limit
on the number of TCP connections that can
be open at a time per origin.
So if you had seven style sheets, the
seven one won't start downloading until
the first one finishes
those kind of things.
So yeah,
I think this is really incredible,
quite easy to digest when you
consider how complex the topic is.
But just a really nice tool where you
can see everything that's going on,
and why it might be taking so long.
Yep, I also have brought the network
waterfall thing in here.
The last thing I wanna mention
here is this never thinking too
simplistically about things.
I think we get obsessed with
download time, and rightfully so.
How big is your image?
How long did it take to download?
How big is your JavaScript bundle?
But I do think we need to remember that
there's a lot more performance than that.
And there's this great blog post by V8
just talk which is the JavaScript engine
behind Chrome, talking about how much more
there is going on than just downloading.
So for example, I hear this all the time,
where people will say, why do you care so
much about a three kilobyte
JavaScript bundle when you have a ten
kilobyte image, right?
And I think I said it like an hour ago,
but I was not 100% correct,
because the image just gets downloaded and
immediately displayed, right?
You know what to do with image.
You just put it on the screen, but
the JavaScript has to get fully parsed and
compiled.
V8 has to run it through its own
optimizing, compile or generate byte code,
there's a lot of work to
be done after the download.
So I think we fall into traps sometimes
thinking too much about download speed.
And I guess the takeaway that I want
people to have, especially with
JavaScript, is that reducing the amount
of JavaScript not via compression.
But actually eliminating some JavaScript
can be tremendously helpful to your page
load time because there's so much more
to be done than just downloading stuff.
Yeah, similarly here we've got these
pictures where you see how much time is
spent, but so much time is spent
just parsing and compiling it.
You wouldn't have that with an image,
right?
And on mobile devices it gets
even worse where you spend over
a second here just parsing this
quite small JavaScript script file.
Again, nothing to worry about too much
just when you're thinking about things
like sizes and
equal amongst all asset types.
JavaScript is particularly expensive
because it's more than just downloading
it, and these are kinda
things to kinda keep in mind.